So now that we've talked a bit
about how the fork-join pool is
structured, we'll spend the
bulk of our time talking
about some example applications
of the fork-join pool.
And what we're going to
use these applications
or these functions to do
is to compare and contrast
different fork-join
pool programming models.
As you can see, there's going to
be through three primary models
that we're going
to look at here.
So what we're going to do is
we're going our program a bunch
of different ways of using the
fork-join, fork-join pool and--
we're going to make our
own fork-join pools.
Now, we're not going to rely
on the common fork-join pool.
But we're all going to apply
these different programming
models on a common data set.
And the reason we do this is so
we can get a really nice apples
to apples comparison
between the performance
of the various mechanisms.
And each of these models have
different performance pros
and cons.
And you can see, when
you run the test program,
which we'll talk
more about here,
we'll get different results.
The test program is
going to go ahead and do
a bunch of operations on
so-called big fractions.
And we're going to
time how long it
takes to run those operations.
And you'll see, if you kind
of zoom in on the performance
statistics that get printed
at the end of the program,
there are some diagnostic
information printed.
So for each of the
different approaches,
we will print out
the steal count,
which is the number of times
that a thread stole a task
from another thread's deck.
And you can see that some
of the approaches we'll
talk about have very
high steal counts
whereas other approaches
have much lower steal counts.
And then we also go ahead
and show the performance
of the various approaches.
And without spoiling
the surprise too much,
one of the things
you'll notice here
is that the approaches that
have higher steal counts
tend to perform worse.
And I'll talk about why that is.
Now, it turns out that there's
a number of different dimensions
we're going to evaluate these
different approaches on.
Steal count is one.
Some approaches copy
more data than others.
Some approaches make more method
calls, especially recursive
method calls, than others.
And so all of those
different factors
will figure into how
long it takes in order
to have the
different algorithms,
different techniques,
work and execute
within a certain period of time.
To make things just a little
cleaner for our test program,
we're going to use some
functional programming
features like Lambda expressions
and method references
as well as sequential
streams in order
to simplify the test code.
Keep in mind, of course,
that the fork-join framework
is really a Java 7 feature,
so it doesn't really
come with a lot of
functional features.
It come with no functional
features itself.
But it works nicely with the
functional programming features
that have been added
in Java 8 and beyond.
And so just to make things a
little bit cleaner and more
concise, that's the approach
we're going to use here.
So we're going to be combining
functional programming
with the object-oriented
fork-join pool APIs.
The fork-join program models
we're going to showcase
here all end up
performing the same set
of operations on big fractions.
So what is a big fraction?
Well, first of all, big fraction
is an open source framework
that you can get here
at my GitHub repository
at this particular
folder, the x22 folder.
And basically, what they
provide are arbitrary
precision fractions.
And the way that they get to
be arbitrary precision is they
utilize big integers
for the numerator
and the denominator
of the big fractions.
So these things can
be arbitrarily big.
There's a number of
factoring methods defined
on big fraction that can be used
to create reduced fractions.
So what you can do here
is you can give values
here, strings, and other ways
of expressing the big fraction.
And if, for example, if you
give a string that says 44/55,
that will be--
could be automatically reduced
to 4/5, just like 12/24 is 1/2,
or 144/216 is 2/3, right.
That's the concept of
reducing fractions.
There's also other
factor methods,
which we'll use in
our examples, that
allow us to create
non-reduced fractions
and then reduce them later.
And that's because reduction
can take some time.
So we might actually
want to do the reduction
in some kind of background
thread or background task.
You can use the big fraction
mechanisms and methods
to perform arbitrary
precision fraction arithmetic,
doing things like adding,
subtracting, multiplying,
dividing big fractions.
So here's a very simple example.
18/4 times 2/3 equals 3.
And if you go back to your
sixth great math class,
you probably remember how to
do the fraction multiplication.
Or you can just go ahead and
use the big fraction class
and not have to remember how
to do fraction multiplication.
One of the other things you
can do with a big fraction
is you can create a
so-called mixed fraction
from an improper fraction.
So a fraction like 18/4,
for various reasons,
is called an improper fraction.
And if you perform the two
mixed string operation,
then it will go ahead and
convert this improper fraction
into a mixed fraction
by, basically, I
guess, making it
a proper fraction.
So 4 and 1/2 is the
mixed fraction mechanism
or mixed fraction
result for 18/4.
So armed with the knowledge
of big fractions, now let's
go ahead and take a look
at the main driver program
that we use to
reduce and multiply
lots of very large random
big fractions using
the Java fork-join framework
and, in particular, using
a bunch of different techniques
and programming styles
for using the
fork-join framework.
So the first thing
we're going to do here
is we're going to go ahead
and use the stream generate
factory method to make a stream
of random large big fractions.
And of course, generate will
go on forever, if we let it.
But we're going to limit it to
the sMAX fractions constant.
So we're only going to
generate up to that many.
Now, the test program is
actually going to be--
I think it's
billions of fractions
or hundreds of
millions of fractions,
lots of big fractions.
So it's a large number that
we're going to work on.
This code here is,
really, the primary use
of streams in this example.
We don't get a
chance to use streams
in the actual programming
of the Java fork-join task
because, as we
talked about before,
those are Java 7 features that
use object-oriented techniques,
not the functional
programming techniques that
were added in Java 8.
And then we take this stream
of large random big fractions.
And we turn it into a
list of big fractions
we call fraction list.
Here's the factory method that
creates a large and random
big fraction.
So you can see it's passed
a random number generator
and a Boolean called reduced,
and it goes ahead and creates
a big integer.
And here you can see you have a
very large random number we're
going to be generating over.
So it'll be from the range
0 to 2 to the 15,000--
no, no, 150,000 minus 1.
That's a pretty darn big number.
And so we're going to generate
a big random, big integer
over a huge range.
And then we're going to go
ahead and make a denominator
by dividing the giant numerator
by a random number between 1
and 10.
So we'll end up with a
smaller denominator but also
a random denominator.
And then we take that random
lead generated numerator
and that randomly
generated denominator.
And we'd return a
big fraction that
combines those things together.
And we also pass
in the flag reduced
to indicate whether we want to
reduce the big fraction or not.
And if you go back
over here, you
can see that the
parameter passed
in as the second parameter to
make a big fraction factory
is the value false.
So what that's saying is don't
reduce this big fraction.
And the reason we don't
want to reduce it is we're
going to reduce it in parallel
using the fork-join poll
because it could take a
while to do the reduction.
So now that we've got this
list of big fractions,
we can then turn around
and create a function using
a function interface
called function, which
is going to end up doing the
logic to reduce and multiply
a big fraction.
And so you can basically
see here the way
that this works is
we are going to say,
big fraction reduce the
random big fraction,
which could take some time.
And then go ahead and multiply
the reduced big fraction
by a constant value.
And this function
that we have here
takes a surprisingly
long time to run
because, if the big fractions
are big enough, which they will
be in this case--
as you saw, they're
massive numbers-- it takes a
while to do the big fraction
reduction and multiplication.
So this is going to end
up burning up a lot of CPU
time, intentionally.
And the final thing we do is
we call all these test methods
to test the various programming
models for programming
with the fork-join framework.
Now, we'll just take a quick
look at these helper methods.
As you can see, they test
the different styles,
testApplyAllIter,
testApplyAllSplit,
and testApplyAllSplitIndex.
And I'll talk about
the differences.
And we'll look at
the code in a second.
But just real quickly, each
of these helper methods
uses a different
technique for applying
the fork-join framework.
This one uses a
work stealing model
to disperse tasks
to worker threads.
So it'll turn out to have
a fairly high work stealing
level.
And we'll talk about that
in an upcoming lesson.
This model uses
recursive decomposition
to disperse tasks
to worker threads.
And we'll talk about that
in an upcoming lesson.
And then this model uses
an optimized recursive
decomposition model to disperse
the task to the worker threads.
And we'll talk about that in
also in an upcoming lesson.
Each of the helper methods
gets its own fork-join pool
that's sized by default the
number of processor cores.
And that's where
it's going to stay.
We're not using the
common fork-join pools.
So things won't grow or shrink.
And number two, because
we're using a special pool,
we're using our own
designated pool,
things won't shrink or
grow because that's not
how those pools work.
And number two, these
are compute bound jobs.
So there would be
no reason to worry
about having managed blockers.
So all the manage blocker stuff
won't be applied at this point.